Welcome back.
How did it go with the remove method?
It should be fairly easy since we got the insert method right.
All we need to do is first check the parameters and we might want to check whether the index is a positive
number, whether the index is higher than the length.
But that's something we've already talked about.
So let's get to the meat and potatoes.
The main part of remove.
All we need to do is once again get the reference to our leader.
So that is if we want to remove, let's say 99.
So that is index of 012.
In that case, we want to make sure that we remove the 10 to 99 pointer and instead point 10 to 5.
And because of how memory works in garbage collected languages like JavaScript, as soon as we remove
that reference, 99 is going to get deleted.
So all we're saying now is remove this pointer.
And then just update this.
To point to the.
This list and this gets deleted.
I hope that my little diagram there makes sense.
Let's code this out.
Well, we first find the leader just like we did in our insert function by using this traverse to index.
So I'm going to say this dot traverse to index, index minus one.
And we have the leader.
Now we have the leader and we can point ten to now point to five, but we need a reference to this five.
And the way we get that reference is to say const on wanted node, that is the node we want to delete
is going to have leader dot next that is the I want to node is going to equal later next which is 99
and we got that variable so we can do leader.
Dot next to equal unwanted node.
Dot next.
So we grab the leader and then we said, this node that I don't want, I want to grab it here by using
liters next and then make sure that we get the pointer that is 99 to 5, which is on one to node next,
which equals to five.
The five node to now be pointed from leader dot next.
And of course, so we don't forget we have to decrease the length because we're removing a node by doing
minus, minus, and we can just return.
This dot.
Print list here.
That wasn't too bad, was it?
Let's go down here and make sure this works.
I'm going to say that we want to.
My link list dot remove to index of two.
So let's remove the 99.
I'm going to run this.
Look at that.
We removed 99.
If I run, remove again to index of two.
That is to remove five.
Oh, now print list.
Remove and we click run.
Five gets deleted.
Very, very cool.
And once again, we know why.
Delete is an operation of O of n.
Because we have to traverse to index.
And going back here, we now have a better understanding of how this diagram works.
If I remove the tail, we have to traverse through everything one by one, one by one, until we hit
the tail and then just remove it.
And there we have it.
And I encourage you to play around with this animation a little bit more, having our link list implemented.
There are other methods that we can add to it, but these are the main ones of linked list that you
can see.
And this should give you a better idea of how we calculate big notation with link lists and where some
of the drawbacks are.
I mean, you can explain data structures for a long time, but without actually coding it yourself,
it's hard to see why some operations take longer than others.
And link lists are very popular and interview questions.
And now you have the tools to build your own link list in a language that doesn't even have it natively,
like JavaScript.
Well done getting this far.
In the next video, we're going to introduce you to the second type of link list that I mentioned at
the beginning.
Up until now, we've created singly linked lists, but there's also a doubly linked list.
What does that mean?
For that, I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.